

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:1919] RNASeq TPM and inter-sample variability
 in ssGSEA

Hello,
Thank you very much for the exhaustive explanation. I followed your
recommendations about first executing ssGSEA and then check if batch effect
was still there with the resulting scores. Samples do not cluster together
by batch if I proceed this way.

One more question. Is there any link with example files to run the "combine
mode" with up- or down-regulated genes, i.e. gene set format for pairings
of up- and down-regulated gene sets, and also how to set the "combine mode"
option (differences between combine.replace and combine.add) in ssGSEA?
Should I open a new thread?

Thanks you very much in advance.


 --------------

Subject: Re: Comparative Marker Selection generated similar p-values

Hello, 

It looks like some of our data has been deleted so I can't actually look at 
your jobs.

In general though, if you are seeing similar values this may mean that you 
need to do more stringent preprocessing.

This tutorial is a little out of date in its screenshots but the analysis 
remains the same and may provide some pointers for 
you: http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/tutorial




 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2928] Error in rep("null", max.Ng * max.size.G)
 : invalid 'times' argument

Hi,

It worked!

Thank you so much for your help, I really appreciate it!








 --------------

Subject: Re: Log-transformation by default?

Hello,

I am glad that you find GenePattern useful!

By default, ComparativeMarkerSelection does not log-transform your data, 
you would need to change the "log2 transform" parameter in that module to 
change that.

Here is a link to the documentation if you want to take a closer 
look: http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/modules/docs/PreprocessDataset/6

Let me know if that helps!

 --------------

Subject: Re: Can not posting on group

Hello, 

I've responded to your original post 
here: https://groups.google.com/g/genepattern-help/c/DW_TKDluALc





 --------------

Subject: Re: error in cellfie output

Hi,

I apologize for the late response. I made the CellFie module and will get 
in touch with the CellFie algorithm developers about this issue. Would you 
mind sharing the parameters you used? Alternatively, if you could re-run 
the job and send me the job number, that would be great too! 





 --------------

Subject: Re: Keep on getting 500 Internal Error When logging in



We have resolved the issue.

Please let us know if you continue to have any trouble.




 --------------


Ah, yes, thank you!
 --------------

Subject: Re: Can ssGSEA be used with RNA-seq data?

Hello,

You can run ssGSEA using RNA-Seq data. This would generally work if your 
samples raw counts are not too different from one another. If counts vary 
too much, you may consider normalizing your data (e.g., so that they are 
between 0 and 1). 

Additionally, I would advise you to run your raw RNASeq counts through the 
module PreprocessReadCounts first. This module was designed to transform 
RNA-Seq data into the type of distribution that modules such as ssGSEA 
would expect. You can read the documentation of PreprocessReadCounts here: 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/modules/docs/PreprocessReadCounts/1

Perhaps you can run three different jobs trying these approaches looking 
for results that you can confirm are biologically significant.




 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:3084] new to RNAseq advanced analysis and Gene
 pattern comparative module

That sounds great I will check it out thanks for help



 --------------

Subject: Re: Eror message while running DiffEx tool in GenePattern

Hello,
What GP modules did you use to convert your GEO imported file to gct and 
cls?




 --------------

Subject: Re: dendrogram in hierarchicalclustering viewer


The short answer is, yes.

More information can be found by looking into dendrograms: 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dendrogram






 --------------

Subject: Re: GSEA Problem

Hi,

The key error is here:  BadParamException: After pruning, none of the gene 
sets passed size thresholds  
This is caused by a couple of potential things, the most common are not 
using the whole dataset, GSEA is indented to be run on all expressed genes 
so having a highly restricted gene list can cause issues with the gene set 
size thresholds.
Another common cause is not collapsing the data using the correct CHIP 
file. Your input identifiers need to match exactly the identifiers used in 
MSigDB if not collapsing, or need to exactly match the identifiers in the 
first column of the selected CHIP file if collapsing.
I recomend checking your input files to see if either of these conditions 
applies. And if not, we can take a closer look.

 --------------

Subject: Re: 208195. ComparativeMarkerSelection


I was able to run the module without error by changing the "GST" extension 
to "gct", can you try this and let me know if it helps?



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:3147] ssGSEA download function

Clicking "Save file" will "save a copy of the file to your local
computer".  It does not use the word 'download' but thats what it will do.

Hope this helps


 --------------

Subject: Re: Issues on GISTIC of GenePattern

Hello,

I'm so sorry that you've not received any help yet.

Are you still having difficulty with GISTIC in GenePattern?

We'll be happy to see what we can do to help.



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:3215] Re: Cross chromosomes error in GISTIC2.0
 v. 6.15.30 unsing GenePattern public server

Thank you I will check this.

 --------------

Subject: Re: [gp-team] Registration Issues

Hi

Sorry about the captcha issue.  I cannot replicate it so my suspicion is
that there is a network issue between you and the captcha server.  Since
you have effectively verified yourself with this email anyway, I created an
account for you using the username "hersheymy" (as in your email as my mail
server presents it) with your email account.  You can use the forgot
password link to have a temporary password emailed to you and then you can
reset the password to your own choice.

hope this helps,




 --------------

Subject: Re: [gp-team] GenePattern Local Server

Hello,

I suggest following this post in our help forum.

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/genepattern-help/tsHqGVHnYD0



 --------------

Subject: Re: trouble with GEOImporter

Hello, 

It looks like GeoImporter is not correctly configured to run on the Indiana 
University server. I've notified the system administrator there. In the 
meantime, you are welcome to run this module on our public GenePattern 
server - cloud.genepattern.org.

Please let us know if you have any trouble.




 --------------

Subject: Re: Sharing data files in Genepattern repository?

Hello,

We are currently working on a better way to share data files along with 
their associated notebooks. 

In the meantime, if your data files can't be made public, I would recommend 
picking a secure channel of your choice and using it to distribute files to 
your users - perhaps an internal file system, private FTP server or Dropbox 
account. From inside a notebook, you can then programmatically access the 
data files using whatever authentication mechanism that channel provides. 

I wish I had a better solution than this at the moment, but our long-term 
solution to this is still being implemented.



 --------------

Subject: Re: MultiplotStudio my files names

Hello, 

This appears to be an off-by-one error in your gct files.

You have 1508*3 *rows of data. The top 3 rows are header data, and 
therefore not counted.

Please let me know if this helps to resolve your issue.




 --------------

Subject: Error in ComparativeMarkerSelection

Hi, Sir,

I encounter the following error when I run ComparativeMarkerSelection

org.broadinstitute.io.matrix.ParseException: All values on the 3rd lines 
must be numbers.
    at 
org.broadinstitute.io.matrix.cls.ClsParser.processData(ClsParser.java:246)
    at org.broadinstitute.io.matrix.cls.ClsParser.read(ClsParser.java:137)
    at org.broadinstitute.io.matrix.cls.ClsParser.parse(ClsParser.java:106)
    at org.broadinstitute.io.matrix.cls.ClsReader.read(ClsReader.java:56)
    at org.broadinstitute.io.matrix.cls.ClsReader.read(ClsReader.java:42)
    at org.broadinstitute.io.IOUtil.readCls(IOUtil.java:464)
    at 
org.broadinstitute.marker.MarkerSelection.run(MarkerSelection.java:1646)
    at 
org.broadinstitute.marker.MarkerSelection.main(MarkerSelection.java:1746)
Unable to parse phenotype.cls.
java.lang.NullPointerException
    at 
org.broadinstitute.marker.MarkerSelection.run(MarkerSelection.java:1691)
    at 
org.broadinstitute.marker.MarkerSelection.main(MarkerSelection.java:1746)

The job number is 423538

However, I could run desktop GSEA using these two files I upload to 
GenePattern.

Thanks for your generous support

 --------------

Subject: Re: Input data for Multiplot

Hello Rosy,

Here is the link to the GCT format. 
https://www.genepattern.org/file-formats-guide#GCT

Please let us know if you need any further assistance.




 --------------

Subject: Re: ssGSEA geneset sizes

Hi,

There is indeed a max threshold of 2000 members for a gene set in the code 
(min is 2, FWIW).  I'm not sure why that's a hard-coded setting rather than 
a parameter but will check with the method author.

Unfortunately there's not a lot that could be done to workaround this, past 
the obvious step of limiting the size of your gene sets.  The code is 
available as open-source and you could modify it for local use (either as a 
GP module or in an R session), but we have no active plans for adding new 
features to this modules just now.


 --------------

Subject: Re: Duplicate Scan Names

Hello, 

It seems there are a number of things going wrong here, so we'll start with 
the low-hanging fruit.


The zip file you use for input to job 280198 is invalid - which is likely 
the reason that you are getting an error saying it couldn't find CEL files.
 

Again, the zip file for the cel input is invalid. Additionally, your clm 
file looks to have Windows line endings as well as additional Windows 
formatting encoded. I would suggest copying just re-creating the file in 
Notepad (rather than Word or WordPad) and saving it as an ANSI txt file.
(I might also suggest downloaded a text editor like Sublime Text which 
allows you to more easily create files with Unix (IE non-Windows) friendly 
line endings 
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39680585/how-do-configure-sublime-to-always-convert-to-unix-line-endings-on-save>
)
 

The CEL file zip is still invalid.
The CLM is also still incorrectly formatted.
The CDF should be a file, not a zip - this looks like a whole library when what 
is being asked for is a single .cdf file. 
<https://www.genepattern.org/modules/docs/ExpressionFileCreator/13> - It 
looks like you can navigate through this zip library and extract just the 
430A CDF 
(C:\Users\<yourUsername>\Downloads\moe430_libraryfile.zip\CD_MOE430\Full\MOE430A\LibFiles\MOE430A.CDF

Try fixing your CEL zips (I'm not sure what you were using to zip, so I'm 
not sure I can suggest anything to help, but be sure you can unzip on your 
local computer before uploading),  reformatting your CLM, and providing 
just the .cdf file and let us know how it goes.

All the best



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:1415] Need help with error "package
 com.apple.laf not in java.desktop"

,
Thanks a lot for your help. It works now.




 --------------

Subject: Re: ssGSEA for scRNA data

Hello Rini, 

Unfortunately, we do not currently recommend the existing module for 
scRNASeq data.
Adapting the method for this data is an active area of research in our lab, 
however, and we will let you know as soon as that is ready for public 
release.




 --------------

Subject: Re: CEL file not found


Hello, 

I'm so sorry it has taken us so long to respond. 

Are you still having trouble with ExpressionFileCreator? If so, please send 
a recent job id and we'll take a look right away.




 --------------

Subject: Re: must be str, not float

Hello,

I changed the names of the headers of your GCT file and the module ran 
successfully. You can see the results here:

https://cloud.genepattern.org/gp/pages/index.jsf?jobid=156324

Particularly the fields "NAME" and "Description" had a different title, 
here's the description of the GCT file format: 
https://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/file-formats-guide#GCT

I think your use case shows that in the next release of the we should allow 
for different words to be in those fileds or at the very least print a more 
informative error code. I have created a ticket to evaluate those 
alternatives.



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2636] Arm plot or plot using samples from 2 groups

These were usually done by taking two Gistic outputs, horizontal flipping
one and manually flipping or adding back the axis labels.

You could also generate your own plots by using the scores.gistic file in
the output.



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:182] GSEA job errors

Thank you, this fixed my problem!


 --------------

Subject: Re: RANK normalization

Hello, 

I would suggest reviewing the section in the documentation titled: 
Adjusting the Dataset Before Ranking
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/modules/docs/RankNormalize/2




 --------------

Subject: Re: GSEA // ssGSEA // combat

Hello,

Data should always be properly normalized for between-sample comparisons 
before running GSEA, batch correction via tools like combat is should 
definitely be performed if you suspect that there may be batch effects in 
your data.
We can't really speak to the specifics of your underlying dataset, if the 
fold changes are around 1, that's just what your data is. 

Without knowing more about what exactly you are using as input for 
GSEA/ssGSEA I can't really say if the results of that analysis are "sold" 
or not, but assuming you've followed all the recommended procedures for 
data processing for GSEA (between sample normalization - normalized counts 
- for standard GSEA, or within-sample normalization - TPM - for ssGSEA, use 
of the data for all genes not just DEGs, permutation type appropriate for 
sample number - for standard GSEA, etc.), I don't see why it wouldn't be.



 --------------

Subject: Re: Parameters used in my previous Job 526322

Hi,

I have emailed the parameters to the email associated with the GenePattern 
account that ran this job.

Hope this helps,


p.s. When you download jobs results, if you either download the entire job 
(as a zip) or individually download the gp_execution_log.txt file, that 
file contains all your parameters, execution times, etc


 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2123] Re: Docker Error

Thanks for getting back to me. I tried again the next day (the same job)
and it worked. The failure happened on several jobs, for example 381977
<https://cloud.genepattern.org/gp/pages/index.jsf?jobResults=userId%3Dizzyca#>
.




 --------------

Subject: Re: Why lesion file contains redundant regions not included in
 segmentation file


I've just released the latest version of GISTIC in beta on the public 
GenePattern server. 

Please try your analysis again, and see if the same issues exist for you.



 --------------

Subject: Re: GenePattern cloud error

Hello, 

My sincere apologies for taking so long to respond. 

A new version of MutSigCV has been installed which addresses this issue.

Please let us know if you have any other questions or comments.






 --------------

Subject: Re: GISTIC2.0 error

, thank you so much for your quick response!! That fixed it, I am able 
to successfully complete jobs now!





 --------------

Subject: Error when using custom gene set

Hello, 
I have been trying to run a ssGSEA analysis using a custom gene set (Job 
#335430
) but I keep getting and error I am really not familiar with. 

Error in rep("null", max.Ng * max.size.G) : invalid 'times' argument
Calls: ssGSEA.cmdline
Execution halted

When I use the the same input gct file with a a reference gene set from 
MsigDB the analysis works correctly. I think I formatted my custom 
reference gene set correctly.

Any help would be really appreciated! 


 --------------

Subject: Re: Problem with Cufflinks/CuffDIff

Hi,

I don't have an answer for you. I am seeing the same error on the GP@IU 
server with one of my test data sets. I'll pass this along to the GP Team 
and get back to you when we have a better understanding of the problem.

 --------------

Subject: Re: [gp-team] how to email genepatterns public help formum?

Hi

This is a google group so you need to use the web page to post to the
forum.  I don't think that you can do it just via email.

The page is at https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/genepattern-help

Hope this helps


 --------------

Subject: Re: PCA viewer problems in IE

Hi,

I am in a similar situation. I downloaded the Visualizer Launcher and 
followed the instruction to enter my GenePattern ID and password followed 
by the Job ID. However, there was only a brief 'flash' of PCAViewer on the 
status bar and then the app quits.

I realised that you mentioned in your post that PCA Viewer require Java 3D. 
I am on Mac OS X 10.10.5 and how do I install Java 3D as required?


 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:1505] SQL server



it is possible to use your favorite database tools to talk to the
Genepattern database like any other.  If you are administrator you can get
the database connection details from the configuration files.

For quick checks into the DB there is a page available only to
administrators at */gp/sql.jsp which will let you execute SQL against the
database.  It is pretty limited but useful for small/simple queries that
don't involve blobs/clobs or other complex data types.



 --------------

Subject: Re: Subscripted assignment dimension mismatch.

Hi,

I took a quick look but am not familiar enough with MutSigCV to be able to 
help with this.  I suggest you contact the authors of the method at mutsig-help@broadinstitute.org 
and ask them.

Hope this helps,


 --------------

Subject: RE: [genepattern-help:2697] difficulties running ssGSEA


--></style></head><body lang=EN-US link=blue vlink="#954F72" style='word-wrap:break-word'><div class=WordSection1><p class=MsoNormal>Hi Vijay,<br><br>The issue might be with the quotes and commas in the gene set names in your file, I’d recommend removing those and trying again</p><p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal>-Anthony<o:p></o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal>Anthony S. Castanza, PhD<o:p></o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal>Curator, Molecular Signatures Database<o:p></o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal>Mesirov Lab, Department of Medicine<o:p></o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal>University of California, San Diego<o:p></o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p><div style='mso-element:para-border-div;border:none;border-top:solid #E1E1E1 1.0pt;padding:3.0pt 0in 0in 0in'><p class=MsoNormal style='border:none;padding:0in'><b>From: </b><a href="mailto:vijayp2011@gmail.com">Vijay Putatunda</a><br><b>Sent: </b>Tuesday, May 23, 2023 2:48 PM<br><b>To: </b><a href="mailto:genepattern-help@googlegroups.com">GenePattern Help Forum</a><br><b>Subject: </b>[genepattern-help:2697] difficulties running ssGSEA</p></div><p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p><p class=MsoNormal>hello,<o:p></o:p></p><div><p class=MsoNormal>I am trying to run ssGSEA, but am encountering the following error:<o:p></o:p></p></div><div><p class=MsoNormal><span style='color:black'>Error in vector(length = gene.set.size, mode = &quot;character&quot;) : invalid 'length' argument Calls: ssGSEA.cmdline Execution halted</span></p></div><div><p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p></div><div><p class=MsoNormal><span style='color:black'>I know my gct file works because I was able to run the GSEA hallmark gene set. I am not sure what is wrong with my gmt file (attached). Could you please advise?


 --------------

Subject: Re: GSEA preranked error message.

Hi,

Your RNK file contains several genes with an associated metric value of 
"#NAME?" which looks like it's probably an error stemming from Excel 
conversion or something similar.  The error message is saying that GSEA 
Preranked is unable to convert these.

It might be worthwhile to go back to your original data to see if these 
have strange values.  You can just filter these out of the file.

It's a fairly common for Excel to automatically alter cells where it thinks 
the value looks like some other data type (turning them into dates, for 
example).  It's best to be *very* careful when manipulating scientific data 
in Excel.

 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:1594] Re: Name color in heatmapimage module

Hi,
    Thanks. Yes I am aware of the documentation. As you pointed out it has
only a color palette option not the colors for annotation of columns. I was
wondering if there is any way you can specify that in the module.
Thanks,




 --------------

Subject: Re: Is the Modules repository down?

Hello, 

Thank you for bringing that to our attention. I've restarted the server and 
that page should be correctly populated now.

Please let us know if you notice any other irregularities.





 --------------

Subject: Re: DESEQ2 down_genes_report contains ID two times where
 up_genes_report not

Hello
Yes, it does look like there is a bug there - thanks for catching that!

I'll pass this along to the module author and we'll see about getting this 
fixed.



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2183] Issue with custom color palette in
 HierarchicalClusteringImage module

Ahh, so simple!  Thank you!!

 --------------

Subject: Re: PreprocessReadCounts module not available

Hi, 

The module is still there, it has just been renamed more accurately to 
VoomNormalize. I will see that this is added to the description so that it 
shows up when you search for PreprocessReadCounts.

Thank you for contacting us!



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:3184] Mutect2

Hi,

We're currently reviewing the available mutation detection tools, including
Mutect2, for inclusion in GenePattern. For now, if you are interested in
using Mutect2, it is available in Galaxy.

 --------------

Subject: Re: [gp-team] 502 bad gateway error

The server is available again now.  PLease let us know if you have any 
further problems





 --------------

Subject: GSEA with NanoString data

Hello, 

I have been reading your blog with interest and came across a problem, 
which I still cannot solve yet. We have performed a nanostring analysis in 
T cells from two groups of tumor patients looking on around 600 genes. Now 
we are wondering if it is valid to perform a pathway analysis within this 
gene set using GSEA.

As I have understood so far, GSEA was initially designed for the analysis 
of microarray and mRNA seq data, where the gene sets are much bigger than 
in a nanstring analysis. Now in one of your comments, you posted that the 
gene set used by nanostring analysis is too small and therefore using GSEA 
is not valid in this case. However, another comment stated, that when 
adjusting the reference gene list to your used gene list, it would be 
possible to perform GSEA. To further explain our data, we are comparing two 
patient groups with each other and have a healthy donor control, for all 
groups the same gene set was analysed, we have calculated the t-statistics/ 
log-fold change with the Software nanostring provided. Furthermore we were 
wondering whether it would be an additional benefit to rather use a 
preranked gene list for the analysis.

Many thanks for your help in advance!


 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:3155] ExpressionFileCreator Error

Hi,

Can you describe the problems you are having? Also, if you were using the
public GenePattern server, can you provide the ID of the
ExpressionFileCreator job that's producing the problem?

 --------------

Subject: Inconsistent results with GSEA

Hi. I am writing because I found a slightly inconsistent reporting of the 
results in two GSEA runs I made through the GENEPATTERN suite 
(https://cloud.genepattern.org/).

The first run was done on November 6, 2019 using the MsigDB 7.0
The second run was done today using the MsigDB v7.1.

In the enclosed two png files where you can see that the reported figures 
of ES, NES, etc., are slightly different. I was wondering if this lack of 
reproducibility is due do the fact that I did something different, besided 
using two different MSigDB versions. I apologize in advance if I am missing 
something big here.

I enclose also the rpt files of both runs.  

Thanks in advance.





 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2395] how to generate GSEA plots with ssGSEA?

Hi,

Unfortunately the ssGSEA module does not produce an analogue of the
traditional GSEA mountain plot and there isn't a way to get it to do so.
The standard presentation of ssGSEA results generally seem to be a
heatmap/clustered heatmap of some sort.

Sorry we couldn't be of more help here




 --------------

Subject: MergeHTseq

Hi, 

I ran HTseq count from my samples and now I would like to merge them in 1 
file but it doesn't work.
I put the screenshot of the failed jobs.

Thanks for your help

 --------------

Subject: Re: Gistic error (multiple) source?

Hi,

I actually believe I may have resolved the error. I believe it was caused 
by creating from .seg files from my cnvkit *.call.cns files rather than the 
*.cns files themselves. I re-ran the new .seg files and no errors occurred. 
I appreciate your response though!


 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2640] Deletion and amplification q plots axis

One more thing.   If you want to use a lower q-value cutoff, this is an
adjustable parameter in additional settings.




 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:54] Re: Qualimap bamqc custom module fails with
 X11 errors

This Qualimap doc lists java and R/3.1 as requirements. My first guess: 
you need to configure the R environment for your GP server.
I suggest adding some debugging statements to your wrapper script.
   which Rscript
   Rscript --version
   # to compare your local to your GP server runtime environment
   env | sort

FYI, once this is working ... you don't necessarily need to run a 
wrapper to set a java flag. This module command line will have the same 
effect:
    commandLine=<java> -Djava.awt.headless ...



 --------------

The problem is simply that your job exceeded the default 2-hour time limit
for the job.  Try increasing the runtime in the job options section below
the gistic parameters.
 --------------

Subject: Re: SLAMS

Hello, 

Unfortunately, we do not have a specific module for SLAMS. 

It appears that SAM has been archived 
here: https://statweb.stanford.edu/~tibs/SAM/

And you might find the procedure described in this GenomeSpace recipe 
<http://www.genomespace.org/support/guides/recipes/sections/identify-copy-number-variation-associated-expression-signatures-using-stepwise-linkage-analysis-of-microarray-signatures> 
helpful. Note, however, that the Genomespace project has ended and this 
recipe can therefore only serve as an archival reference.





 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:2723] Gistic public server doesn't work

Dear,

Many thanks for your response. I tried today and it is working again. But I 
had problem the whole yesterday to run and I was getting the notification 
that the job aborted after 5 seconds of running. 
Now everything seems fine. Many thanks!

Regards,



 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:1746] ssGSEA Nanostring input expression data


Thanks for the kind reply again. I hear your points. Very valid.

In my project as the 800 genes in the targeted panel are selected
immune-related genes, I am using MSigDB C7 immunologic signature which has
4800 gene sets. After setting a minimal 3 overlapping genes (from my input
data) in each gene set, there are still 3800 genes available for analysis.
So hopefully this would be less of a concern, but your points are very well
taken. I will make sure to fully disclose the limitation in the publication.


 --------------

Subject: Re: Parallel CBS error

Thanks. Let me know whenever you update PCBS compatibility for v3 
of CBS.



 --------------

Subject: Re: GEOImporter module output file log2 transformed or not

Hello Scorpio,

You would have to check the source data.

If it is not log transformed, you can use PreprocessDataset to do so, or 
simply indicate the state in ComparativeMarkerSelection.




 --------------

Subject: Re: [gp-team] 502 Bad Gateway

Hello,

Yes, we are experiencing an unplanned outage. I have just post to social
media (thank you for the reminder - I was busy debugging). We are actively
working to get the server back up ASAP. I will post again in the forum
<https://groups.google.com/forum/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer#!forum/genepattern-help>
and
on Twitter <https://twitter.com/GenePattern> and Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/GenePattern-159999027359395/>, as soon as I have
more information.

Apologies



 --------------

Subject: Re: What to do after downloaing visualizer

Hello,

I'm afraid I'm not entirely sure what you are trying to do. Why did you 
download the visualizer? and how did you download it? 

Any other information you can provide to describe your goal would be much 
appreciated.




 --------------

Subject: Re: Input format for ABSOLUTE using sequencing data

Hi,

Thank you so much for the prompt reply!

I've read the website you mentioned as well, and it says without using 
HAPSEG, I can also supply a tab delimited segmentation file to ABSOLUTE as 
input. It's necessary for me because I'm testing my tool for segmentation 
as well. Now I'm still confused about what  "*Num_Probes*" and "
*Segment_Mean*" should be for sequencing data. I would be really appreciate 
for your answer!


 --------------

Subject: Re: GSEA analysis

Hello Giovanni, 

I would suggest posting this request in the GSEA forum 
<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/gsea-help>, as you will get 
insight there from the GSEA developers and community.

All the best
-Barbara





 --------------

Subject: Re: [genepattern-help:1100] Re: Help running ABSOLUTE in GenePattern

Thanks for getting back to me,

No worries about the delay, I can see the GenePattern users keep you guys
pretty busy. I have actually managed to get ABSOLUTE running pretty well.

I will look forward to a future release of newer version, but have what I
need for now!



 --------------

Subject: Re: running MUTSIG

Hello, 

How are you searching for this file?

If you click on "Add Path or URL" for the coverage file parameter, you 
should see a pop up like this, where you can navigate to the file.

If you are running on our AWS server, cloud.genepattern.org, you will need 
to provide this 
url instead: ftp://gpftp.broadinstitute.org/module_support_files/MutSigCV_1.4/exome_full192.coverage.txt





 --------------

Subject: Re: HeatMapImage color scale legend

Hello, 

Unfortunately, there is no legend output available for this module, and as 
it is a legacy module, we will not be adding that feature.

All current and future development for the viewing of heatmaps is and will 
be in the HeatMapViewer module. 

As for row max/min vs global - this can be set in the HeatMapImage module.




 --------------

Subject: Re: Trouble with Differential Expression tutorial

Hello, 

Thank you for drawing our attention to this out-of-date documentation.

The ComparativeMarkerSelectionViewer has been rewritten in JavaScript to 
avoid exactly the sorts of Java errors mentioned in the current version of 
the tutorial.In fact, since that was written, Java applets have been 
discontinued in browsers.

To that end, the viewer now displays in the browser window, as you noted. 
As it is also new code, it no longer supports ftp or .res files.

To continue with the tutorial you can use this 
link https://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/data/all_aml/all_aml_train.gct.

I've added a ticket for this tutorial to be updated. Our apologies for the 
confusion.





 --------------

Subject: GISTIC error: Cell contents reference from a non-cell array object

Hello,

I am trying to run GISTIC 2.0 with my segmentation and marker files (Job ID 1666689) 
and the program issues this error:

*{ ??? Cell contents reference from a non-cell array object.*

*Error in ==> gene_score_permutations at 114*

*Error in ==> compute_stats at 83*

*Error in ==> run_focal_gistic at 206*

*Error in ==> run_gistic20 at 127*

*Error in ==> run_gistic2_from_seg at 225*

*Error in ==> gp_gistic2_from_seg at 97*

*}  *
**
*Cell contents reference from a non-cell array object.*
*MATLAB:cellRefFromNonCell*


The 'stdout.txt' file contains the following:

*GISTIC version 2.0.22*
*Conv:.*
*Conv:.*
*Warning: No display specified.  You will not be able to display graphics 
on the screen.*

Do you know what could be the reason for the error?

Please respond with the following information as applicable:
 Complete description of the problem (ie what you were trying to do and 
what went wrong):

Job ID if run on a publicly available server.

If not on Public Server, please share your input files, if possible. If you 
need to do so privately, let us know.
 
   What were your Parameter values?
   Server Platform (Mac/Linux)?
   Any errors or warnings you see in either stderr.txt, stdout.txt or popup 
dialogues:


Please note that many common errors can be resolved by searching this forum 
or taking a look at our documentation: 

* Module Documentation - available from the "documentation" link in the 
upper right hand corner of the module input page or here: 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/modules
* GenePattern FAQ - 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/FAQ
* GenePattern  Videos - 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/video-tutorials
* GenePattern File Formats - 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/file-formats-guide#file-formats
* GenePattern User Guide - 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/user-guide#user-guide
* GenePattern Programmer's Guide -  
<https://groups.google.com/a/broadinstitute.org/forum/goog_853188425>
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/programmers-guide
* GenePattern Release Notes - 
http://software.broadinstitute.org/cancer/software/genepattern/doc/relnotes/current



 --------------

Subject: Re: Does GISTIC look for genes or cytobands?


My apologies for this late reply and that the GenePattern team is unable to 
answer this question - it is unfortunately outside our area of expertise.

I would suggest posting in the GISTIC forum which is monitored by the 
authors and community at large.

https://groups.google.com/a/broadinstitute.org/forum/#!forum/gistic-forum

All the best



 --------------